>> Jem Young: Let's do
a recap of the first course.
We learned how the internet works.
We learned domains, and IP addresses.
Domains are just a map to IP addresses.
Yeah?
All right, all right, okay,
haven't lost anybody yet.
We also learned how to
love the command line.
We learned that terminals
aren't that scary.
In fact, you can just take your mouse and
just throw it out the window right now.
I'll wait.
Alright, welcome back.
Don't throw out your mouse, but we're
gonna do everything today in the shell.
It's not sexy.
It's not like,
look at this cool thing I built.
But it's that deep satisfaction
knowing you built a server.
And you built something that can run
anything, cuz servers are the backbone of,
well, most of the applications you use.
>> Jem Young: We also learned basic
commands like ping, traceroute, vi.
Anybody, what does ping do?
>> Speaker 2: Sends a ping
request to the server?
>> Jem Young: Why do we use it?
>> Speaker 2: To see if it's up?
>> Jem Young: Yes, perfect.
Traceroute, someone remind me.
What does traceroute do?
>> Speaker 3: It shows the path that your
request takes to get to the final server.
>> Jem Young: Yes, excellent answer.
Why do we use it?
>> Speaker 3: I do not.
>> Speaker 4: Speed of the connection.
>> Jem Young: Not really,
but it can help with that.
You're on the right path.
Anybody?
>> Speaker 3: Like to see where your
outage is happening [CROSSTALK] down.
>> Jem Young: Yes.
Great answer.
Yes, exactly.
If your server is not responding or
you know your server is up but
you don't know why you're not connecting
to it, traceroute is an excellent tool in
finding out which part of the layer,
of the network layer is down.
And vi, just want to remind me what vi is.
>> Speaker 5: Editor.
>> Speaker 6: Editor.
>> Jem Young: Excellent, alright.
Someone got something.
Mostly with vi,
we learned what 1.2 million people
on the internet do not know.
We learned how to exit vi.
It's a very common like, it's a very
popular problem on Stack Overflow.
Someone remind me, how do we exit vi?
>> Speaker 7: Saving or not saving.
>> Jem Young: Not saving, just exiting.
>> Speaker 7: Colon q?
>> Jem Young: Colon q, excellence.
You're smarter than probably 1.3
million people now, so feel proud.
We also learned how to create and
manage your own web server.
Hopefully, everybody managed to bring
up the server in the first part.
If not we're gonna bring up another
one but, hopefully you did,
cuz that's kinda the whole
point of these classes.
Servers.
And you learned,
you have your own sweet new server,
maybe with your own domain name,
maybe not.
Maybe it's just a simple
node server sitting there.
It doesn't matter.
Today we're gonna make it awesome.
We learned how to create a deploy
system with a for Node app.
We used Gulp for that.
But Gulp is just one of many tools
we can use, we can use scripts.
We can use, hell, we can use Python.
We can use anything we want to deploy,
because deploys are just a way of
shipping code out into the world.
We use Gulp because we do JavaScript,
JavaScript is great.
All right.
We also built a very basic webpage.
Very boring, there are at least 3 or 4
classes on Frontend Masters of people that
are much smarter than me and much better
designers on how to build a webpage.
So I encourage you to take those,
we learned how to put it in there, and
just serve it down to the world.
Just a quick hello world.
So why full-stack?
So in the year since my previous course,
I think I've gotten, I don't know,
56 recruiter emails about
full stack specifically,
even though that's not what I do.
I am a UI engineer.
But we learn full stack, because it's
an important skill set to learn.
All the code you're gonna write,
especially if you're building a web page,
runs on a server, at some point.
So it's good to know
how these things work.
And it's not that I wanna teach you rote,
line by line,
exactly like how to think and what to do.
I wanna teach you why we're doing it,
that's much more important, the why.
I wanna make you know, and
not just believe that this stuff works.
Cuz a lot of stuff,
you can just copy paste.
You can Google, how do I do this?
Copy-paste it,
your server's up and running.
But you won't know how to fix things.
When you go off that paved road
of unknownness, you made a typo,
how do you know how to fix it
if you don't know what you did?
And that's what this course is all about.
So I'm gonna go nice and slow.
We're gonna start off fast,
cuz we're gonna build a server.
Everything we did in the first one,
and then we're going to slow down,
ask me questions.
I promise you, I'm a UI engineer,
I don't know everything.
Most of the things we're
gonna cover today,
there's entire careers dedicated to it.
So application security, just writing
scripts and automating deployment,
there's entire careers and
professions that do just these one things.
And all the tools we're gonna
cover are fairly complex.
If you want, in any given time, and
you see something of a command line,
just type man, for the manual page,
we learned that last time.
And you'll see, the myriad of options, so
I promise I don't know what all
those things do, not many people do.
But it's there if you need it.
But again ask a lot of questions,
that's why you're here today.